Hey everyone. Welcome back to Movie Recap.
Today I'm gonna show you a 2013 American science
fiction monster film called, Pacific Rim.
The film begins in 2013. Deep beneath the
Pacific Ocean, a fissure opens up that leads
to another dimension. Through the fissure
a giant monster appears, and destroys portions
of San Francisco. After several days and countless
lives, the creature is defeated by human military
forces.
However, what seemed to be an isolated attack
builds as more creatures begin to come through
the fissure, attacking coastal cities around
the Pacific. The world unites to stop the
invaders, and develop the Jaeger Program:
a series of giant mechanical 'monsters,' intended
to stop the creatures. Original tests to have
one pilot per Jaeger prove unsuccessful, as
the test subjects were not able to handle
the stress and strain of controlling such
a huge robot by themselves. It was then decided
that each Jaeger would be piloted by two pilots,
their memories linked together in the "Drift",
synchronizing their movements to maneuver
the massive machines.
As the Jaegers go to work, they begin to turn
the tide, and take down the creatures which
are named "Kaiju". Pretty soon, the world
is enthralled by the Jaegers and their pilots.
They become celebrities, and even have merchandise
made. As well, the dead Kaiju are soon seen
as a black-market commodity, their parts sold
off for various collections and medicinal
purposes, though many of their bodily fluids
are toxic and cause severe environmental pollution.
But just as the war seems to be turning in
humanity's favor, the Kaiju's attacks become
more frequent and more brutal.
In 2020, seven years after the fissure opened,
one of the more famous Jaeger duos, Raleigh
Beckett, and his older brother, Yancy have
become heroes with an impeccable record of
defeating Kaijus. Pilots of the Jaeger named
"Gipsy Danger," they are sent off to stop
a category 3 Kaiju heading towards Anchorage.
The beast is larger and more powerful than
previous category 3s and will be a challenge
for the team. Though the information on their
monitors shows a fishing boat in the path
of the attack, the Becketts are told their
priority is to protect Anchorage.
Disobeying orders, the two still save the
fishing boat, but end up being brutally attacked
by the Kaiju, which rips off the Gipsy Danger's
left arm, and tears away a chunk of the vehicle's
helmet, sending Yancy to his death. Raleigh
barely manages to pilot Gipsy Danger on his
own and finishes the battle, using the robot's
giant plasma blaster to kill the creature.
Raleigh later pilots the Jaeger to a remote
beach where it finally collapses. Raleigh
walks out, bearing injuries from the battle
because of the Drift, Jaeger pilots experience
the same injuries that their mechanical counterparts
do and collapses on the beach too, exhausted
and emotionally devastated from his brother's
death.
After the attack, Raleigh leaves the Jaeger
Program, and goes to find work wherever he
can. Five years later, he finds work along
the Western coast of the United States as
a construction worker, helping build a giant
coastal wall that is meant to keep the Kaiju
out.
In the 5 years since Raleigh was with the
Jaeger program, numerous countries have called
for the program to be terminated due to spiraling
casualties of Jaeger pilots in the increased
Kaiju attacks and the enormous cost of keeping
it funded. Many assume that building the coastal
barriers will make them safe, but the head
of the program, Stacker Pentecost, claims
that the world's leaders are making a terrible
mistake. Even though Pentecost claims the
program is still viable, it is relocated to
Hong Kong and given 8 months of funding before
the program will be permanently retired.
Working on the wall near Sitka, Alaska, Raleigh
sees television reports that a Kaiju has broken
through the wall surrounding Sydney Harbor
in Australia. Luckily, a Jaeger named Striker
Eureka is able to take it down. After seeing
the news report, Raleigh is surprised when
a helicopter lands near his construction area,
with Pentecost requesting he come along. Raleigh
is reluctant to join the Jaeger program again,
however, Pentecost convinces him that he belongs
in the pilot's seat.
Raleigh is then flown to the Hong Kong Base,
known as 'The Shatterdome', where he meets
Mako Mori. Mako tells Raleigh that she has
studied his moves during his years in action
as a Jaeger pilot, Raleigh notes she seems
apprehensive.
Pentecost also introduces Raleigh to two scientists
under their command. One of them, Dr Newton
Geiszler, is an obsessive 'Kaiju Fanboy,'
who studies the creatures through salvaged
organs and other parts. The other is Dr. Gottlieb,
who is a more 'practical' man, using his mathematical
knowledge to try and pinpoint the frequency
of creatures coming through the ocean rift.
Within the Shatterdome, the last remaining
Jaegers and their crews have been assembled:
The 3-pilot Crimson Typhoon, from China, Cherno
Alpha, from Russia, Striker Eureka, fresh
from its stint in Australia, and, to Raleigh's
surprise, Gipsy Danger. However, since her
encounter 5 years ago, she has been rebuilt
and retrofitted for more extreme combat.
Raleigh questions Pentecost on just what their
plan is. Pentecost explains that are formulating
a plan to drop a nuclear weapon into the channel
between dimensions. If it works, the channel
will be destroyed, stopping any further Kaiju
from coming through. Though the plan of attacking
the channel has failed in the past, the program's
leaders are confident they will be successful
this time if all the remaining Jaegers attack
simultaneously.
Pentecost soon after meets again with Geiszler
and Gottlieb. Gottlieb predicts that mathematically,
the number of Kaiju coming up through the
rift is increasing. Geiszler meanwhile, wonders
if they can learn more about the Kaiju, if
they are able to 'drift' with its brain. Having
a portion of one, he is eager to test his
theory, but is denied by Pentecost, who decides
to follow Gottlieb's research.
Without his brother, Raleigh is tasked with
helping to find a replacement. However, during
a training and reflex exercise, Raleigh becomes
irritated when Mako keeps calling him out
regarding the number of moves to take down
his opponent. Inquiring why she is being so
vocal, she responds that he could have taken
down his opponents with a shorter amount of
moves. After winning approval from Pentecost,
Raleigh spars with her and is amazed at her
prowess. He proclaims that she should help
him co-pilot Gipsy Danger, but Pentecost refuses.
Eventually, another pilot is chosen for Raleigh,
but at the last minute, Mako is given permission.
A test-run of Gipsy Danger within the Shatterdome
appears to be going well, until during the
Drift session, Mako gets locked into a tragic
memory and almost sets off the Jaeger's plasma
cannon within the dome.
Following the incident, Raleigh understands
more about Mako and Pentecost. When Mako was
a child, she lost her family to a Kaiju attack
in Tokyo. Just when it seemed the creature
was going to kill her, a Jaeger was deployed
that stopped it. The pilot of the Jaeger was
Pentecost himself. Even with her becoming
unfocused in the drift, Raleigh still wants
Mako as his partner, but is again rebuffed
by Pentecost.
Meanwhile, Dr. Geiszler has hooked up a crude
connection machine, and hooks into the Kaiju
brain in his lab. The strain of the drift
is quite overwhelming for Geiszler and Gottlieb
shuts it down. Geiszler reports to Pentecost
and his men that the link allowed him a glimpse
into the other side of the portal. Geiszler
had theorized that based on some Kaiju samples,
that what they were seeing coming through
were cloned creatures, and his drift vision
appears to corroborate the theory. Unfortunately,
the Kaiju brain has been damaged, and Geiszler
needs a fresher brain in order to learn more.
Pentecost gives him a small card, and sends
him to Hong Kong to look for a man named Hannibal
Chau.
Geiszler finds Chau, who is actually an American
going under an alias. Chau is a dealer in
Kaiju remains, collecting them from battle
sites and dealing them on the black market.
Geiszler is sufficiently impressed with Chau's
secret room containing live specimens that
could be useful in his research. Geiszler
tells Chau that he wants an intact brain.
Chau balks at the idea since recovering a
Kaiju brain is nearly impossible, the skull
bone of a Kaiju is too thick to penetrate
quickly and the brains become useless when
contaminated with ammonia. Geiszler still
bats around Chau's arrogance and questioning
demeanor, saying that he can use a Kaiju's
secondary brain instead. He mentions how he
drifted with a Kaiju brain, leading Chau to
question that if he connected to the other
side, what's to say those on the other side
don't know what he now knows? Chau reveals
that he'd also drifted with a Kaiju brain
and the result was permanent injury to his
left eye and the danger that the aliens can
send any Kaiju to find him in the city.
Shortly after their discussion, two Category
4 Kaijus surface near Hong Kong. Pentecost
sends out Crimson Typhoon and the Cherno Alpha
to fight the creatures, with Striker Eureka
as backup to protect the City's coastline.
Just as discussion had seemed to point to
the Kaiju becoming more dangerous, the two
that have emerged come with extra accoutrements.
One possesses a pouch in its throat containing
acid that melts away Cherno Alpha's armor,
severely disabling it. Crimson Typhoon's crew
take her into the fight, but she is soon overwhelmed
by one of the Kaiju that uses a clawed tail
to rip off the jaeger's head. Cherno is attacked
by the larger of the two Kaiju and defeated
when they're forced underwater and the monster
crushes their reactor, drowning both pilots.
The father/son team piloting Striker Eureka
abandon their orders to protect Hong Kong,
and go at the creatures. However, the other
Kaiju lets loose an EMP burst that disables
Striker Eureka, and the equipment in the Shatterdome.
With 2 hours until the system can be rebooted,
Striker Eureka is dead in the water until
Raleigh offers a solution: though the newer
models of Jaeger are digital, the Gypsy Danger
is analog and thus more resistant to EMP attacks.
Pentecost sends out Raleigh and Mako, who
end up destroying the EMP-armed Kaiju after
a protracted battle, but the other one ends
up heading into Hong Kong.
While Chau and his associates have fled to
their bunker, Dr. Geiszler has been thrown
out into the streets by Chau to hide in a
public fallout shelter. However, when it sounds
like the creature has settled directly over
them, he begins to panic that Chau may have
been right, and that it may be looking for
him. As if to answer that the ceiling caves
in, and the Kaiju attempts to reach him.
Just then Gipsy Danger appears and distracts
the Kaiju. The battle goes through many buildings,
and Gipsy is able to freeze and shatter the
creature's tail and tear out it's acid sac.
However, the battle takes a turn when the
creature suddenly sprouts giant wings and
begins to carry the Jaeger into Earth's upper
atmosphere. Utilizing a new weapon, a large
chain-sword, they manage to destroy it before
plummeting back to Earth, barely regaining
control of the Jaeger as a team to make a
safe landing.
Raleigh and Mako return to the Shatterdome
to cheers as the pilots of the Eureka also
voice their thanks and appreciation. During
the jubilation, Raleigh notes Pentecost bleeding
slightly from both nostrils. In private, Pentecost
explains how, in the earlier days of the Jaeger
program, shielding from nuclear contaminants
had not been considered and that his condition
has been worsening over time.
Meanwhile, Geiszler has returned to Chau and
demands claim over the dead Kaiju's secondary
brain. Chau's men attempt to get to it, but
find it damaged and useless. However, they
also discover the Kaiju is actually pregnant
before their communication link with Chau
goes dead. Just then, an infant Kaiju breaks
through a slit in the side of its Mother,
and attempts to escape before falling down,
seemingly choking on its own umbilical cord.
As Chau gloats over the dead infant Kaiju,
claiming he'd known it couldn't survive very
long outside it's mother, the creature rears
up and swallows him whole, finally dying in
the street.
Dr Gottlieb soon shows up in Hong Kong with
Geiszler's machine, and though the first attempt
almost killed him, Gottlieb volunteers to
drift with the other scientist, to cooperate
in learning more through the infant Kaiju's
brain and handle the strain of the experience
together.
Plans are soon made to set up the Gipsy Danger
and Striker Eureka to deliver the warhead
to the undersea rift. With his father unable
to pilot Striker due to a broken arm, Herc
Hansen is left without a partner. Pentecost
surprises everyone when he takes the role.
However, the strain of piloting a Jaeger could
prove fatal to Pentecost, but he volunteers
anyway.
As the two Jaegers near the rift, Geiszler
and Gottlieb rush into the Shatterdome's control
room, and explain that the plan will not work.
The channel between dimensions will only allow
in a Kaiju, the very reason for the previous
failures to destroy the channel with other
nuclear weapons: if they attempt to drop the
warhead into the channel, it'll just deflect
off the breach. The two Jaegers battle two
Category 4 Kaiju guarding the rift as a third
Kaiju, a Category 5, larger and more powerful
than the previous creatures, emerges.
Gipsy Danger and Striker Eureka sustain heavy
damage in the battle. Unable to deliver the
bomb, Striker Eureka detonates it to take
out the defending Kaiju and give Gipsy Danger
a chance to enter the rift. Once inside, Raleigh
and Mako will detonate Gipsy's nuclear reactor
and destroy the rift. Gipsy attaches itself
to the Category 5 Kaiju and fall with it into
the rift, bypassing the code that would reject
any non-kaiju. Inside the Kaiju dimension,
Raleigh ejects Mako in a life pod and manually
initiates the detonation of the nuclear core.
As Gypsy Danger enters the other dimension,
Raleigh ejects in his own pod before Gipsy
Danger explodes and collapses the rift, ending
the Kaiju threat once and for all. On the
surface of the Pacific Ocean, both pods reach
the surface. For a brief period, it seems
that Raleigh may be dead but he awakens, much
to Mako's joy.
A mid-credits scene reveals that Hannibal
Chau has survived being swallowed by the baby
Kaiju by cutting his way out with a pocket
knife. He angrily asks where the shoe he lost
is.
Thanks for watching See you in another Movie
Recap.
Please LIKE and SUBSCRIBE, and click the bell
icon to get new video updates
Have a nice day !